
## Prototyping
the prototype videos will be sent along with the files, they are named intuitively (Proto1, Proto2, Proto3) watch each video with the corresponding paragraph.
### Prototype1:
In this Prototype I have started the development process by taking my design made in figma and redesigning the basic layout in qt designer. This step has set out the ground work for the rest of the project and how the code will be laid out. The steps I will take going forward will be to implement the basic functions of a text editor first and then go on to adding more complex functions such as the md viewing and the date saving. The first step I will take will be adding the basic text editor.


### Prototype2:
In this prototype I have added the main features of a text editor to the app plus the ability to view the file in markdown formatting and the calendar (which does not do anything at this stage). The improvements to be made are to allow the saving of dates in entries and to allow the calendar to be interacted with in the date saving process. The main problems this build are the lack of features and options the users have. The code is simple and going well. The next step is adding the other icons and buttons to allow more functionality such as saving files, deleting them, and opening other folders. Also adding the ability to see and store other files in the software cache. so changes stay while the software is open even when the file isn't saved. 

### Prototype3:
In this prototype I have added all of the features except the Settings Menu page to explain how to use the app and the commandline. A few problems with this prototype are: The calendar does not show diary entries made on a specific day which would make it more accessible for people. The links in markdown don't work however that is a quirk of qt rather than my code. This means that to allow markdown links to work I would have to code my own special widget. The next step is to first get the command line working and then to set up the settings menu so people know how to use the app. I also don't like the current self made icon for the settings menu button (top left) so I want to change that in future.



### Reflection
I think the app I made is simple, intuitive, and enjoyable. The colour scheme makes heavy use of a darker purple and grey for the backgrounds which make it easy on the eyes for people journaling for long periods of time. The layout is clean with the file selector and the text editor being the main focus of the app allowing users to focus on their journaling. The corners were rounded equally and widgets are evenly spaced from each other maintaining the clean and calming look. Throughout the development process I encountered many issues that I had to use my problem solving skills to solve. One such problem was figuring out how to attribute a date to a diary entry in the software in a permanent way. I queried others and looked online for elegant solutions but all of them used a separate file to keep track of the dates. I however didn't like this idea as I thought it would add more clutter so I thought and decided on using the creation date in the metadata to be the diary entry date. I then did some research into the pywin32 module and learnt how to use handles and win32files to change the creation date of the file. I had to use the creation date because that was the one time attribute that windows would not change every time the file was accessed or edited. If I had to repeat this project and make changes, these are the changes I would make: I would use my earlier time more effectively to manage stress later. I would also talk with the teacher (Tim) and figure out strategies to effectively cope with mind block. This is because I know that when I have something in my mind properly I know how to code it and can implement it quickly but otherwise it takes some time to get started with different features. I would also start commenting my code earlier to make it easier to understand what I did before for my future self. In this project I learnt how to use pyqt6 and qt designer to create an effective and aesthetically pleasing app, use my problem solving skills to research and find solutions to problems not necessarily already on the internet, manage my time and start early so that there is less stress, poll other potential users to find features that they want and make an overall better app because of the wide range of views, and more effectively document my working process.